Home-Ec building opens door to innovation 
by Gail Landers 


Is it a masterpiece or a maze? The four-story brick structure 
contains seventeen semi-truck loads of cabinetry, sixty micro- 
wave ovens, and 2500 stryofoam blocks for symulating room 
designs or mobile homes. 

Planning began in 1969 and construction started in ’71 after 
both architects and a faculty committee drew up plans for 
building, furnishing and equipping the $4 million structure. 

Probably the most interesting and advanced feature of the 
Home Ec. building is the fact that each of the three top floors 
contains an open balcony. These are windowless and unscreened 
and will remain this way throughout the winter. 

Each floor has its own contemporary lounge with modern 
plastic and metal furniture, the perfect way to pass between class 
breaks. 

Habitational Resources headquarters is on the fourth floor. 
Two very new features are equipment to measure the energy 
consumption of washers and dryers and a “red-light’’ room to test 
fading color changes in fabrics. 

One point of interest on the third floor, is a soon-to-be-completed 
student hospitality dining room. This will be the pace for Catering 
class dinners and quantity food projects. 

The third floor, textile headquarters, has sewing labs with 
Viking, Elna and Singer machines and a textile lab with a 
humidity-control dark room. 

They’re cookin’ with gas, electricity, Corningware and micro- 
waves on the second floor. The meal management lab contains 
preparation of fast food service items. First floor also is where the 
research lab with equipment to test the crispness of crackers! 

The ground level will have a multi-media auditorium to be 
completed in the summer of ’74, and has its own kitchen for 
preparation of fast food service items. First floor also is where the 
day-care program happens. The “‘little people” have their own 
play room, restroom, lunch room and play ground, all equipped 
with TV cameras or two-way mirrors. 

The weaving looms, once found deep in the basement of 
Harvey Hall, now have a new home. Rising from the basement of 
K Bliss, the ‘‘Bottom Drawer’’ is now ‘Our Place” and on the first 
floor of the new Home Ec. Building. 


A hotel’s front desk? Yes, the Hospitality and Tourism branch
will have its own simulated hotel operation. Though there won't 
be any bell-boys in uniform the new Home Ec. building has many 
new interesting and innovating ideas. Don’t be afraid to explore 
the labs and ask questions on building materials or plans. 

Open house for the new building will be held Tuesday Sept 
25. Members of the public are invited to participate in tours from 
7:30 -9:30 p.m. Tours begin at the west entrance on fourth street 
with parking available in the lot across the street. 

Lounge area
Child Study Center 
Food Science Laboratory 
"Our Place"
Space Laboratory 


